.TH DOWNLOAD-VIDEO 1 "2026-04-14" "0.0.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
download-media \- interactive wrapper for yt-dlp
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B download-media
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIURL\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B download-media
is an interactive wrapper around
.BR yt-dlp (1)
that streamlines downloading video and audio from 1800+ supported sites
including YouTube, Twitter/X, Instagram, TikTok, Facebook and more.

If no URL is provided, it first checks the system clipboard for a URL
and falls back to an interactive wizard that prompts for URL, type,
quality, format and destination folder.

Before downloading, a preview (title, uploader, duration, approx. size)
is shown and the user is asked to confirm. Playlist URLs are detected
and the user is offered a choice between downloading a single video or
the full playlist.

Successful downloads are appended to a history log at
.IR $XDG_STATE_HOME/download-media/history.log .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-audio
Audio only (mp3 by default). Output goes to
.I ~/Music
unless overridden.
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quality " " \fIN\fR
Maximum video quality. One of:
.BR 360 ", " 480 ", " 720 ", " 1080 ", " 1440 ", " 2160 ", " best .
Default:
.BR 1080 .
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-format " " \fIFMT\fR
Audio format when
.B \-\-audio
is used:
.BR mp3 ", " m4a ", " opus ", " wav .
Default:
.BR mp3 .
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " " \fIDIR\fR
Destination folder. Default:
.I ~/Videos
for video,
.I ~/Music
for audio.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-list
List available formats for the given URL and exit.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-playlist
Force full playlist download.
.TP
.BR \-P ", " \-\-no\-playlist
Force single-video download, ignoring playlist membership.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-subs
Download subtitles (auto-generated when available) and embed them.
Default languages:
.BR es,en .
.TP
.BR \-\-sub\-langs " " \fILANGS\fR
Comma-separated list of subtitle language codes (implies
.BR \-\-subs ).
.TP
.BR \-\-cookies " " \fIBROWSER\fR
Use cookies from the given browser for authenticated content
(age-restricted, private accounts, etc.). One of:
.BR firefox ", " chrome ", " chromium ", " brave ", " edge ", " opera ", " vivaldi ", " safari .
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-interactive
Force the interactive wizard even when a URL is provided.
.TP
.BR \-y ", " \-\-yes
Skip all confirmation prompts. Useful for scripting.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print help and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Interactive wizard:
.PP
.RS
.B download\-video
.RE
.PP
Download a video at 1080p:
.PP
.RS
.B download\-video https://youtu.be/xxxxx
.RE
.PP
Extract audio as mp3:
.PP
.RS
.B download\-video \-a https://youtu.be/xxxxx
.RE
.PP
Download with English subtitles:
.PP
.RS
.B download\-video \-s \-\-sub\-langs en https://youtu.be/xxxxx
.RE
.PP
Download a private Instagram post using Firefox cookies:
.PP
.RS
.B download\-video \-\-cookies firefox https://instagram.com/p/xxxxx
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I $XDG_STATE_HOME/download-media/history.log
Tab-separated log of successful downloads: timestamp, type, URL, folder.
.SH DEPENDENCIES
.TP
Required:
.BR yt-dlp (1),
.BR ffmpeg (1)
.TP
Optional (clipboard):
.BR wl-paste (1),
.BR xclip (1),
.BR xsel (1)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR yt-dlp (1),
.BR ffmpeg (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Edicson Abel
